This is a working version of the darkscience IRC network Oper Policy. 
Everything is subject to change at anytime without notice.


It is expected that all operators behave in a professional manner while connected to the darkscience IRC Network.

No form of abuse will be tolerated. 

This translates to absolutely NOT allowing:

* Oper overrides unless services are missing, or a similar circumstance presents itself with no other avenue of action. If you       
  are unsure, simply refer to an available oper.

* No setting yourself as +o in a channel, joining +s channels without being invited, evading bans, or setting/modifying a channel's 
  modes/settings without appropriate permissions in the channel. This is expressly prohibited across the board on all channels with particular 
  emphasis on shared channels. 

* Absolutely no needless (a)kills, bans, glines, zlines, or flexing of oper power. 

* Use of getpass is forbidden.

We rely heavily on common courtesy between operators spread across many networks and/or communities. We are simply unable to express the gravity of these 
rules. Fingers will be lost if they are not followed. 

When at all possible, please use channel services to set chanmodes.

Channels on our network are designed to be manageable by users, even in the event of a flood. With the proper use of unreal's +f mode, a channel op can handle a 
flood on his own.

If a user joins the network with a ghosted nick, the proper procedure is to instruct the user how to use nickserv to recover their nickname. Opers should not 
accept user requests to kill ghosts or kill their own ghosts when services can be used alternatively.

The rule of thumb with being an IRC operator is knowing how not to use your power. A good operator will almost never need to use their power and always stay 
informed.

Removal of a user from the network is to be used as a last resort.

You may not be annoying. Be professional. Do not be a wanker, please. If you want to be respected, then speak in a respectable manner. 
Grammar, punctuation, and common courtesy are memorable and will carry you far.

No fighting in public channels. Fighting in public is both annoying and unprofessional. All we have on IRC are words. You will be expected to conduct yourself in 
a polite manner at all times.

No spam will be tolerated. If you are spamming our IRC network on another network in any shape, way, or form, then you will be subject to punishment. All the 
reputation darkscience has is completely based on word of mouth. Darkscience doesn't need to spam. Selectively inviting someone is not considered spam. By all 
means, tell people about darkscience and invite them. But please, be selective :)

Opers are expected to help users and respond to requests for help politely and adequately. 

Opers will not become involved with internal channel related affairs, politics, etc. Any channel disputes and incidents should be resolved between the channels 
with minimal participation of any network staff with the only exception being in a limited mediatory role.  

Be discrete with network affairs. Please idle #opers regularly and share and/or report issues to staff so we all stay informed.

Opers may not distribute nor disclose user information in any form, including but not limited to IP addresses, passwords, etc. 

In summation, the general attitude of being an oper here at the darkscience network is that you understand "power is when you have every justification to kill and 
you don't".


